doc/build-instructions.rst, before:

Minetest Mapper Build Instructions
##################################

Minetestmapper can be built on posix (Linux, \*BSD, ...), OSX and Windows
platforms.

Not all platforms receive the same amount of testing:

* Gcc and clang builds on Linux are frequently tested.
* The BSD family should also give little trouble. It is not tested that I know of.
* Windows building using MinGW is also regularly tested and should work.
* MSVC on Windows has not been tested recently.
* Building on OSX has not been tested recently.

Please let me know how you fared on your platform (when you encounter problems,
but also when you're successful - so I can update this text with the latest
information).

.. Contents:: :depth: 2

Requirements
============

Libraries
---------

* libgd
* sqlite3 (optional - enabled by default, set ENABLE_SQLITE3=0 in CMake to disable)
* leveldb (optional, set ENABLE_LEVELDB=1 in CMake to enable leveldb support)
* hiredis (optional, set ENABLE_REDIS=1 in CMake to enable redis support)

At least one of ``sqlite3``, ``leveldb`` and ``hiredis`` is required. Check the
minetest worlds that will be mapped to know which ones should be included.

Build Environment
-----------------

* C++ compiler suite (clang or gcc (including mingw); msvc has not recently been tested)
* cmake
* make

Documentation
-------------

If converting the documentation to HTML, or another format is desired:

* python-docutils


Install Dependencies
====================

Debian and Derivatives
----------------------

Install a compiler if not yet installed. Either gcc/g++:

::

	apt-get install make cmake cmake-curses-gui g++

Or clang:

::

	apt-get install make cmake cmake-curses-gui clang

To convert the manual to HTML (if desired), install ``python-docutils``

::

	apt-get install python-docutils

In order to make a ``.deb`` package (if desired), install the required tools:

::

	apt-get install fakeroot

Finally install the minetestmapper dependencies. At least one of ``libsqlite3-dev``,
``libleveldb-dev`` and ``libhiredis-dev`` is required.

::

	apt-get install zlib1g-dev libgd-dev libsqlite3-dev libleveldb-dev libhiredis-dev

Fedora and Derivatives
----------------------

Install a compiler if not yet installed. Either gcc/g++:

::

	yum install make cmake gcc-c++

Or clang:

::

	yum install make cmake clang

To convert the manual to HTML (if desired), install ``python-docutils``

::

	yum install python-docutils

In order to make an ``.rpm`` package (if desired), install the required tools:

::

	yum install rpm-build

Finally install the minetestmapper dependencies. At least one of ``libsqlite3x-devel``,
``leveldb-devel`` and ``hiredis-devel`` is required.

::

	yum install zlib-devel gd-devel libsqlite3x-devel leveldb-devel hiredis-devel

Ubuntu
------
See `Debian and Derivatives`_

Linux Mint
----------
See `Debian and Derivatives`_

Windows
-------

You're probably in for a lot of work, downloading software, and
probably compiling at least some of the direct and indirect dependencies.
At the moment, regrettably, detailed instructions are not available.

Other
-----

At this moment, no specific instructions are available for other platforms.
Feel free to contribute...

Compilation
===========

Linux / BSD / ...
-----------------

Plain:

::

    cmake .
    make

With levelDB and Redis support:

::

    cmake -DENABLE_LEVELDB=true -DENABLE_REDIS=true .
    make

Create native installation package(s):

::

    cmake -DCMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX=/usr -DCREATE_FLAT_PACKAGE=False
    cpack

See `CMake Variables`_ for more CMake options.

Windows
-------

Unfortunately, at the moment no instructions for Windows building are available.

OSX
---

Probably quite similar to Linux, BSD, etc. Unfortunately no detailed instructions
are available.

CMake Variables
---------------

ENABLE_SQLITE3:
    Whether to enable sqlite3 backend support (on by default)

ENABLE_LEVELDB:
    Whether to enable leveldb backend support (off by default)

ENABLE_REDIS:
    Whether to enable redis backend support (off by default)

ENABLE_ALL_DATABASES:
    Whether to enable support for all backends (off by default)

CMAKE_BUILD_TYPE:
    Type of build: 'Release' or 'Debug'. Defaults to 'Release'.

CREATE_FLAT_PACKAGE:
    Whether to create a .tar.gz package suitable for installation in a user's private
    directory.
    The archive will unpack into a single directory, with the mapper's files inside
    (this is the default).

    If off, ``.tar.gz``, ``.deb`` and/or ``.rpm`` packages suitable for system-wide installation
    will be created if possible. The ``tar.gz`` package will unpack into a directory hierarchy.

    For creation of ``.deb`` and ``.rpm packages``, CMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX must be '/usr'.

    For ``.deb`` package creation, dpkg and fakeroot are required.

    For ``.rpm`` package creation, rpmbuild is required.

CMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX:
    The install location. Should probably be ``/usr`` or ``/usr/local`` on Linux and BSD variants.

ARCHIVE_PACKAGE_NAME:
    Name of the ``.zip`` or ``.tar.gz`` package (without extension). This will also be
    the name of the directory into which the archive unpacks.

    Defaults to ``minetestmapper-<version>-<os-type>``

    The names of ``.deb`` and ``.rpm`` packages are *not* affected by this variable.

Converting the Documentation
============================

Using python-docutils, the manual can be converted to a variety of formats.

HTML
----

Conversion to HTML yields a nice manual:

::

	cd doc
	rst2html manual.rst > manual.html

Unix manpage
------------

Conversion to unix man format has acceptable, but not perfect results:

::

	cd doc
	rst2html manual.rst > minetestmapper.1

PDF
---

The results of using ``rst2pdf`` (which, as an aside, is not part of python-docutils,
and needs to be obtained separately) to convert to PDF directly are not good: random
images are scaled down, some even to almost invisibly small. If PDF is desired, a
good option is to open the HTML file in a webbrowser, and print it to PDF.  

Other
-----

Other conversions are possible using python-docutils. If you tried any, and
they warrant specific instructions, feel free to contribute.

Commit message:

Generate HTML documentation (some improvements and documentation)

doc/build-instructions.rst, after:

Minetest Mapper Build Instructions
##################################

Minetestmapper can be built on posix (Linux, \*BSD, ...), OSX and Windows
platforms.

Not all platforms receive the same amount of testing:

* Gcc and clang builds on Linux are frequently tested.
* The BSD family should also give little trouble. It is not tested that I know of.
* Windows building using MinGW is also regularly tested and should work.
* MSVC on Windows has not been tested recently.
* Building on OSX has not been tested recently.

Please let me know how you fared on your platform (when you encounter problems,
but also when you're successful - so I can update this text with the latest
information).

.. Contents:: :depth: 2

Requirements
============

Libraries
---------

* libgd
* sqlite3 (optional - enabled by default, set ENABLE_SQLITE3=0 in CMake to disable)
* leveldb (optional, set ENABLE_LEVELDB=1 in CMake to enable leveldb support)
* hiredis (optional, set ENABLE_REDIS=1 in CMake to enable redis support)

At least one of ``sqlite3``, ``leveldb`` and ``hiredis`` is required. Check the
minetest worlds that will be mapped to know which ones should be included.

Build Environment
-----------------

* C++ compiler suite (clang or gcc (including mingw); msvc has not recently been tested)
* cmake
* make

Documentation
-------------

If converting the documentation to HTML, or another format is desired:

* python-docutils


Install Dependencies
====================

Debian and Derivatives
----------------------

Install a compiler if not yet installed. Either gcc/g++:

::

	apt-get install make cmake cmake-curses-gui g++

Or clang:

::

	apt-get install make cmake cmake-curses-gui clang

To convert the manual to HTML (if desired), install ``python-docutils``

::

	apt-get install python-docutils

In order to make a ``.deb`` package (if desired), install the required tools:

::

	apt-get install fakeroot

Finally install the minetestmapper dependencies. At least one of ``libsqlite3-dev``,
``libleveldb-dev`` and ``libhiredis-dev`` is required.

::

	apt-get install zlib1g-dev libgd-dev libsqlite3-dev libleveldb-dev libhiredis-dev

Fedora and Derivatives
----------------------

Install a compiler if not yet installed. Either gcc/g++:

::

	yum install make cmake gcc-c++

Or clang:

::

	yum install make cmake clang

To convert the manual to HTML (if desired), install ``python-docutils``

::

	yum install python-docutils

In order to make an ``.rpm`` package (if desired), install the required tools:

::

	yum install rpm-build

Finally install the minetestmapper dependencies. At least one of ``libsqlite3x-devel``,
``leveldb-devel`` and ``hiredis-devel`` is required.

::

	yum install zlib-devel gd-devel libsqlite3x-devel leveldb-devel hiredis-devel

Ubuntu
------
See `Debian and Derivatives`_

Linux Mint
----------
See `Debian and Derivatives`_

Windows
-------

You're probably in for a lot of work, downloading software, and
probably compiling at least some of the direct and indirect dependencies.
At the moment, regrettably, detailed instructions are not available.

Other
-----

At this moment, no specific instructions are available for other platforms.
Feel free to contribute...

Compilation
===========

Linux / BSD / ...
-----------------

Plain:

::

    cmake .
    make

With levelDB and Redis support:

::

    cmake -DENABLE_LEVELDB=true -DENABLE_REDIS=true .
    make

Create native installation package(s):

::

    cmake -DCMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX=/usr -DCREATE_FLAT_PACKAGE=False
    cpack

See `CMake Variables`_ for more CMake options.

Windows
-------

Unfortunately, at the moment no instructions for Windows building are available.

OSX
---

Probably quite similar to Linux, BSD, etc. Unfortunately no detailed instructions
are available.

CMake Variables
---------------

ENABLE_SQLITE3:
    Whether to enable sqlite3 backend support (on by default)

ENABLE_LEVELDB:
    Whether to enable leveldb backend support (off by default)

ENABLE_REDIS:
    Whether to enable redis backend support (off by default)

ENABLE_ALL_DATABASES:
    Whether to enable support for all backends (off by default)

CMAKE_BUILD_TYPE:
    Type of build: 'Release' or 'Debug'. Defaults to 'Release'.

CREATE_FLAT_PACKAGE:
    Whether to create a .tar.gz package suitable for installation in a user's private
    directory.
    The archive will unpack into a single directory, with the mapper's files inside
    (this is the default).

    If off, ``.tar.gz``, ``.deb`` and/or ``.rpm`` packages suitable for system-wide installation
    will be created if possible. The ``tar.gz`` package will unpack into a directory hierarchy.

    For creation of ``.deb`` and ``.rpm packages``, CMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX must be '/usr'.

    For ``.deb`` package creation, dpkg and fakeroot are required.

    For ``.rpm`` package creation, rpmbuild is required.

CMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX:
    The install location. Should probably be ``/usr`` or ``/usr/local`` on Linux and BSD variants.

ARCHIVE_PACKAGE_NAME:
    Name of the ``.zip`` or ``.tar.gz`` package (without extension). This will also be
    the name of the directory into which the archive unpacks.

    Defaults to ``minetestmapper-<version>-<os-type>``

    The names of ``.deb`` and ``.rpm`` packages are *not* affected by this variable.

REQUIRE_HTML_DOCUMENTATION:
    Whether HTML documentation must be generated. If enabled, and python-docutils is not
    installed, building will fail.

    By default, HTML documentation will be generated if python-docutils is found, else
    it will not be generated.

DISABLE_HTML_DOCUMENTATION:
    Whether to skip generation of HTML documentation, even if python-docutils could be
    found.

    Note that if HTML documentation is not generated at build time, it will also not
    be included in the packages, even if python-docutils is in fact installed and
    even if the converted documentation is available (e.g. because it was generated
    manually).

Converting the Documentation
============================

Using python-docutils, the manual can be converted to a variety of formats.

HTML
----

By default, documentation is converted to HTML when building minetestmapper,  provided
python-docutils is installed.

If automatic documentation conversion at build time is disabled, but python-docutils
is installed, non-automatic conversion is still possible. Either using make:

::

	make hmtldoc

Or by manually invoking ``rst2html``

::

	cd doc
	rst2html manual.rst > manual.html

Unix manpage
------------

Conversion to unix man format has acceptable, but not perfect results:

::

	cd doc
	rst2html manual.rst > minetestmapper.1

PDF
---

The results of using ``rst2pdf`` (which, as an aside, is not part of python-docutils,
and needs to be obtained separately) to convert to PDF directly are not good: random
images are scaled down, some even to almost invisibly small. If PDF is desired, a
good option is to open the HTML file in a webbrowser, and print it to PDF.  

Other
-----

Other conversions are possible using python-docutils. If you tried any, and
they warrant specific instructions, feel free to contribute.
